# Overview
Simple project to track the tonnage of my weightlifing program. "Tonnage" is a measure of the work that one did during a training session. 

For lifts which have a linear bar path, for example, the squat and deadlift, this is just the straightforward calculation of the change in potential energy that the bar accrues as you move it against the Earth's gravitational field. 

For lifts which do not have a linear bar path, for example, the bench press, power clean, power snatch, press, etc., the situation is more complicated. The change in potential energy of the bar is still the same, but the work that one has to do now has a nonlinear component, as a function of the curved trajectory. This can be expressed with a line integral, however, since I have not equipped this repo with MathJax or some other way of embedding equations into a markdown file, I am unable to write out what the closed-form expression looks like here. The LaTeX expression is: W = \int_{C} \vec{F}\cdot\vec{dx}ds 

Rather than try to calculate the work exactly, we assume that the contribution from the nonlinear bar path remains constant, as it does in the linear case, and use the product: tonnage = weight * reps * sets, to obtain a measure for how much work we did. One important consequence of this approach is that it prevents us from comparing tonnages across different exercises as these constant factors that we've abstracted away are only constant for each exercise. For example, the work done in the course of deadlifting a single rep is W = mgh, the same is true of the squat, but the distance along which the bar travels will be different so we cannot meaningfully compare those tonnages. Tonnages can only be meaningfully compared to those calculated for the same lift. 

This quantity is important, as it forms the basis for progressive overload. Progressive overload is the first principle that all successful strength training programs will implement. Strength is an adaptation, and by increasing the amount of work that one must do on a consistent basis, we stimulate this adaptation. A strength training program that does not implement progressive overload is not a strength training program. It is either a cardiovascular program, or a waste of time.